---
layout: post
title: Imprisonment
permalink: imprisonment
excerpt: Since the BSV split I have finally been able to connect with other people who genuinely want to listen to what I had to say and who have been able to understand it and connect with me emotionally. The life that I have led before was something I wish I could have avoided. Nothing could have made me imagine how much the people around me would want to stop listening to me so quickly and for such a long time that I would be desperate for human connection. I do not feel that way now but I am only beginning to recover.
---

I have been coming to the realization that I was seriously mentally disturbed for many years due to having my trust broken over and over from people I loved and that I believed I could rely on. Einstein has said that insanity is doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different outcome. I have been driven insane by the idea that everyone should naturally want to make Bitcoin more valuable.

To me it has always felt extremely stupid that someone wouldn’t want to drop whatever they were doing and try to understand Bitcoin. Obviously, future global money would be the most valuable possible thing and therefore there was an extreme time premium on the value of understanding. I have only wanted to treat Bitcoin as something that everyone must want to understand as quickly as possible, due to the value of it. Unfortunately, this decision has left me isolated again and again. Now I have people who I know will actually listen to me if I want to talk about something I think is wrong, but the time has hurt me in a way that I could never have expected to feel this bad.

I have struggled to live independently of my parents because of autism. I feel very hurt by my family. I feel like they treat me like a loser. For years, the rest of my family has acted like they didn’t have even one second of their time to listen to me tell them why Bitcoin is a good idea even though the invention of a new money would literally be the most valuable thing in history.

The truth is, I am not very competent. My social skills are poor and before Bitcoin I had only been able to make lasting friendships groups which are accepting of people with poor social skills, such as the furry fandom. I have not been able to hold jobs very easily. I was not very good at programming when I first got into Bitcoin but now I am much better at least. People in my family have told me they believe I am a genius. When something happened that I thought needed to be understood urgently, none of them showed much curiosity about it no matter what I would try to say about it. It was years before any of them really wanted to understand the first thing about it. Nothing I could say would make them think I needed their help. I feel like this treatment is horrible, not like how I would be treated in a family that thought I was valuable.

I brought my friends Michael and Pierre into Bitcoin. I believed that I would be able to confide in them. When core ideas took over, their minds became walled off to me. I could not believe anyone would think that small blocks are a good idea. To me small blocks are something that should fool no one, yet it seemed like they fooled everyone.

I realized that no one around me was genuinely interested in hearing anything I had to say about Bitcoin now despite believing that my earlier articles were classics. I did not understand how such a thing was possible, that something I had written years ago would be something that everyone had read and yet nobody even wanted to listen to the words that I was saying now. Instead I saw over and over that people I knew were not genuinely interested in the global money. Not only did my own readers not want to hear but so did my close friends. No one believed that I was saying something important to understand.

The Bitcoin cash split was like going through a nightmare. I did not genuinely believe that uasf was possible. On the cash side of the split, replay protection meant that big blockers willingly agreed to start over! I could only sit and watch while the only thing I wanted to do was being destroyed before my eyes. Everyone I thought was my friend was not willing to hear one word from me about what was wrong. It was like being in the movie Idiocracy. It was like something that I couldn’t have ever imagined could ever really happen. For years I have felt like very few have been willing to understand what I was saying even though the value of Bitcoin is literally the most important thing for everybody to understand. It’s an opportunity unlike any the world has ever seen and yet I could barely get a word in about it with my family or with people who I had believed were my friends.

This time has deeply hurt me and has lasted far longer than I thought was possible. It was like I was trapped. I have had friends who have stood by me as friends and I have made new friends who have been able to relate to me as a person, they did not feel the urgency of the situation and they did not see how hurt Bitcoin really was. To me, the most valuable thing in the world was being wantonly destroyed yet no one was able to see what was being lost well enough to focus on solving anything.

The BSV split was another betrayal with more lost friends who would not understand what I was talking about. I knew that there was nothing wrong with Craig Wright because he was doing “King of Narnia” from my show. The Narnia episode explains that Satan’s minions need to be able to recognize one another and the way they do this is to act like Kings of Narnia, which is a costly signal that transmits reliable information between adversariable parties. I didn’t care if he wasn’t Satoshi because I knew that only someone good could have understood my message from the video. Only someone who knew about reality could be a King of Narnia.

I expected to see others, but there was no one like him. At first I didn’t believe he was as good as he was trying to say he was, but he is. I believe that other people can be Kings of Narnia if they look into themselves and find their own connection out of the wardrobe and into reality.

I could not believe that the idiots in BCH thought they could reject Craig. Not only is it inherently stupid to try to reject people if you want to make global money, but his demonstrated opportunity cost was so great that he would necessarily win the centrality contest. It was obvious to anyone that he was the most important person in BCH because people talked about how much they hated him much more than they talked about anything else!

At least this time there was no replay protection.

Since the BSV split I have finally been able to connect with other people who genuinely want to listen to what I had to say and who have been able to understand it and connect with me emotionally. The life that I have led before was something I wish I could have avoided. Nothing could have made me imagine how much the people around me would want to stop listening to me so quickly and for such a long time that I would be desperate for human connection. I do not feel that way now but I am only beginning to recover.
