---
layout: post
title: Public Traceability in Bitcoin
permalink: public-traceability 
excerpt: For a time, I worked on an implementation of CoinShuffle. I knew as much about anonymity as I did from David Chaum’s old papers on it. I did not understand that what I was doing would necessarily bring me closer to violent criminals and that it could do nothing but work against the success of Bitcoin.
---

I removed “emperor” from my Twitter profile because I missed something important about Bitcoin for a long time. Because libertarians generally can’t stand laws that force people to do accountancy correctly, I didn’t understand that a genuinely functional version digital cash that worked on free market would necessarily require it and that everyone would prefer it.

I was fooled. For a time, I worked on an implementation of CoinShuffle. I knew as much about anonymity as I did from David Chaum’s old papers on it. I did not understand that what I was doing would necessarily bring me closer to violent criminals and that it could do nothing but work against the success of Bitcoin. I feel like I was a juvenile delinquent. I am glad that it never worked. I understood that anyone who used it would be responsible for the service because anonymity is a service that a group of people gives to one another. I did not understand that the service could never be delivered responsibly.

Anonymity is linked to the nature of the BTC cult. All cults protect abuse. Anonymity brings people back to the stone age. Traceable coins are stupid to steal beacuse all claims about theft can be checked against the public evidence. Bitcoin links the world together. Everyone must leave public evidence no matter who they are. All crime leaves an evidence trail. With physical cash, a thief can leave an evidence trail that perhaps no one will find because it is localized in space. In Bitcoin there is no spatial localization. It is stupid to steal Bitcoin.

What if someone wants to be a terrorist? Unfortunately for him, anyone competent enough to build weapons would only want to sell them for Bitcoin. Terrorists will have to use inferior money. People who want to be terrorists will be living in conditions that are like a Mad Max wasteland while everyone around them who doesn’t mind being traced will be living in a wealthy futuristic society. People who would be terrorists today will be beggars in the Bitcoin future.

What about governments? They will have to want to be traceable as well or live in primitive economy. What if somebody wants to start a war? What did the money get spent on? Are they doing a good job cutting costs? What about the other side? What if the enemy is better at spending money? What are we paying these generals for? You know another thing is I think this war is causing the value of Bitcoin to go down due to the way that in inhibits trade. No matter how they try to get Bitcoin, it will always become less valuable the more they try to hurt the rest of the economy. Everything that makes Bitcoin less valuable is an uphill battle.

Someone who prefers Anoncoin is choosing to go back to the dark ages. The value of money is the network effect. Choosing a coin means choosing your friends. People who have unknowingly bought monero or BTC, not knowing this, have done something very dangerous that they have not understood. The people who are already in a coin are not random samples of people. They are the product of investment history. Over time, anonymous BTC and monero would necessarily attract worse and worse criminals and attract no one who likes accountancy.

For a long time I mistook the inventions of the core developers for stupidity. Everyone called me an idiot when I said that segwit was stupid. I did not understand that the propaganda that was used to tell everyone that it was a genius invention was part of a scheme to turn BTC into an anonymizer. I did not understand that BTC would necessarily rapidly attract violence because I did not understand what goal segwit could be used to achieve.

For a long time I have not known who I could trust. I have only been able to think about Bitcoin on my own. That is not healthy. People I thought were my friends became core cult members and the rest of my family would not engage with me when I tried to talk to them about Bitcoin. I did not know how to assess good companies to join with and I could only find failures to work with. I thought that most of the companies in Bitcoin were completely stupid but even the ones I thought might be good turned out to be too disorganized to be able to really accomplish anything. My mind was trapped because I had no one I could talk to.

I started my show because I needed friends more than anything and nobody I knew would even listen to me long enough to be able to understand what I thought was wrong. I used costly signalling because I knew that the cult members did not understand mining. I knew that demonstrated opportunity cost would result in rational actors watching more of my show. I used satire because I knew that satire is the genre to combat thought control. I said I was the emperor because I understood Don Quixote. I felt shut out of society because of my imagination. No one else wanted to listen long enough to be able to share my hallucination of Bitcoin’s success which was what I wanted to focus on.

Now that I have been able to make friends that I can trust enough to have been able to share information, I have come to understand that I have been fooled and have also worked against Bitcoin. It’s time for me to be somebody else.
